Have you experienced
an unexpected financial setback?
Is your child struggling
to resist peer pressure
or unwholesome influences from the Internet?
Have you been diagnosed
with a life-threatening disease?
Life in this wicked system
can seem like a dark wilderness.
We may feel alone, discouraged,
and like we just don’t know where to turn.
This is why more than ever,
we need to strengthen
our faith in God’s Word.
When we study the Bible and take it to heart,
our faith in God grows
and something amazing happens.
Let’s find out what that is
at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
and let’s read verse 13
—1 Thessalonians 2:13:
“Indeed, that is why
“we also thank God unceasingly,
“because when you received God’s word,
“which you heard from us,
“you accepted it not as the word of men
“but, just as it truthfully is,
“as the word of God,
which is also at work in you believers.”
How does God’s Word work in us?
It has already transformed us
into faithful servants of Jehovah God,
but it also gives us
the power to remain strong
under difficult circumstances.
This subject is timely
because we live in a world where so many
plant seeds of doubt about the Bible.
They say it is something outdated
or inaccurate.
It is our determination not to allow
the world’s mistaken views
to erode our faith in the Bible.
In this talk, we’re going to look
at three proofs
to help us maintain our love and confidence
in God’s inspired Word:
its prophecies,
what it says about the earth,
and its survival against all odds.
Let’s take the first point
—Bible prophecies.
Beyond man’s reach
is the ability
to foresee the future in detail.
Only Almighty God can do this.
For example, secular history tells us
that in the year 539 B.C.E.,
a man named Cyrus
conquered the land of Babylon
and allowed thousands of Jewish captives
to return home
to restore true worship in Jerusalem.
The Bible also tells us about these events,
with one notable exception.
While secular history recounts these events
after they happened,
the Bible foretold these events
before they took place
—in fact, some 200 years before.
Let’s take a closer look
and see for ourselves.
Let’s turn to Isaiah chapter 44
—Isaiah chapter 44—
and we’re going to read verses 27 and 28.
And as we read these verses,
please take special notice
of how many times the word “will” appears.
“The One saying to the deep waters,
“‘Be evaporated,
and I will dry up all your rivers’;
“the One saying of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd,
“and he will completely carry out
all my will’;
“the One saying of Jerusalem,
‘She will be rebuilt,’
and of the temple,
‘Your foundation will be laid.’”
This isn’t Jehovah God just guessing
or trying to figure out the future.
He’s decided what will happen,
and he will make it happen.
How could the Bible predict
this kind of detail
some 200 years in advance?
There is only one explanation.
Turn a couple of chapters over
to Isaiah chapter 46,
and let’s read verse 10.
“From the beginning I foretell the outcome,
“and from long ago
the things that have not yet been done.
“I say, ‘My decision will stand,
and I will do whatever I please.’”
It’s fulfilled prophecies like these
that build trust and confidence
in God’s Word.
Now, another reason
we have faith in the Bible
is because of what it says about the earth.
Let’s consider an example at Job chapter 26,
and let’s read verse 7.
Job 26:7:
“He stretches out the northern sky
over empty space,
suspending the earth upon nothing.”
Now, this was stated some 3,500 years ago.
Job’s statement
would have appeared ridiculous
to the Greek philosopher Aristotle,
who taught that an object must rest upon
or be attached to something
or else it will fall.
It was not until 1687
that the scientist Isaac Newton explained
that the earth is held in orbit
by an invisible force
appearing as if it were suspended on nothing.
Now, how did the Bible know the truth
more than 3,000 years ago?
The answer:
It is the Word of God,
and “God . . . cannot lie.”
Let’s take our third line of evidence,
and that is the Bible’s survival.
Although the original books of the Bible
have disappeared,
accurate copies of the Bible manuscripts
have survived to our day
despite natural decay, fierce opposition,
and deliberate tampering with its message.
Isaiah 40:8 tells us:
“The word of our God endures forever.”
The Bible has not endured
as a mere museum display;
its message has endured.
That inspired message
has been conveyed in over 3,000 languages.
This is irrefutable proof
of its divine origin.
The following video
presents additional evidence
that the Bible is God’s Word.
Please pay attention to this.
Wasn’t that faith-strengthening
—to see more evidence
that the Bible is God’s Word?
How can we strengthen
our conviction in God’s Word?
We can do so by creating
study projects to build our faith.
One fascinating project involves
the prophecy at Genesis 3:15.
Perhaps you can quote it by heart,
but have you ever sat down
and taken the time to make a timeline,
listing key scriptures that show
how God bit by bit shed light
on the individuals and the arrangement
referred to in this verse?
When we take time to really study the Bible
and meditate on these golden threads
running through the Bible,
our faith in God’s Word will be strengthened.
Have you had doubts about something?
Then write it down.
Then use our research tools
such as the Study Bible,
JW Library®, Watchtower ONLINE Library®
to dig deeper.
It’s worth the effort.
And if you’re a parent,
help your children come to know
and fall in love
with the Author of the Bible.
We are so close to begin
the real life in the new world.
Now is the time to strengthen
our trust and confidence in the Bible.
When we have strong faith in God’s Word,
we can feel as did our young brother Ruslan
from Turkmenistan
who faces his second prison term
because of his faith.
He declared:
“I have strong faith
that Jehovah will reward me. . . .
“Where there is a strong hope,
there is endless joy;
“where there is joy,
there is strength and endurance.
And a strong person can never be broken.”
You too will never be broken
if you maintain your faith in God’s Word.
Brother Samuel Herd of the Governing Body
will now present
the next talk in this symposium,
“Why We Have Faith
in . . . God’s Moral Standards.”